---
title: "Fitness Tracker (Dec. 2024 - Present)"
excerpt: "Classifying cardio activities such as running, walking, and cycling has been implemented in today's smart watches. However, classifying weight lifting exercises is still an ongoing challenge. This aims to develop a machine learning-based system that classifies barbell exercises and counts repetitions using accelerometer and gyroscope data."
collection: portfolio
tags:
  - machine-learning
  - python
---

Classifying cardio activities such as running, walking, and cycling has been implemented in today's smart watches. However, classifying weight lifting exercises is still an ongoing challenge. This aims to develop a machine learning-based system that classifies barbell exercises and counts repetitions using accelerometer and gyroscope data. 

The motivation behind this project is to provide athletes and fitness enthusiasts with an automated tool that accurately tracks workout performance, eliminates manual counting, and offers insights into exercise execution. By leveraging sensor data, the tracker can enhance training efficiency, prevent overtraining, and improve workout consistency.

## Features
* **Exercise Classification:** Uses machine learning models to classify different barbell exercises based on sensor data.
* **Repetition Counting:** Implements a custom algorithm to count the number of repetitions per set with high accuracy.
* **Real-Time Data Processing:** Processes accelerometer and gyroscope signals in real time to provide immediate feedback.
* **Outlier Detection:** Identifies anomalies in sensor data to improve model reliability.
* **Feature Engineering:** Utilizes techniques such as principal component analysis (PCA), low-pass filtering, and frequency abstraction to extract relevant data features.
* **Model Optimization:** Performs grid search and hyperparameter tuning to achieve the best classification accuracy.
* **Data Visualization:** Provides graphical representations of workout sessions for better analysis and insights.

## Tech Stack
* **Python:** Main programming language for data processing, modeling, and analysis.
* **NumPy & Pandas:** Used for numerical computing and data manipulation.
* **Scikit-learn:** Provides machine learning algorithms for classification and feature selection.
* **Matplotlib & Seaborn:** Used for data visualization and exploratory data analysis.
* **SciPy:** Implements signal processing techniques such as the Butterworth low-pass filter.
* **TensorFlow/PyTorch:** Enables the development of deep learning models for exercise classification.
* **Jupyter Notebook:** Used for prototyping and iterative development of machine learning models.

Please refer to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/lee-hanhee/FitnessTracker) for more information and the [data](https://docs.datalumina.io/s1eFpcdtbvRTMb) used in this project under the Files section. 
